.TH CONFIG_SEARCH 3  "28 August 2020" "" "libreadconf Manual"
.SH NAME
config_search, config_search_br \- search a configuration's keylist for a known key
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libreadconf.h>
.PP
.BI "int config_search(CONFIG *" cfg ", const char *" name ", char *" data_buff ", unsigned int " buff_size ");
.PP 
.BI "void config_search_br(CONFIG *" cfg ", const char *" name ", char **" data ");
.ll -8
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS config_search()
This function searches for the next occurence of key
.I name
in the keylist of
.I cfg
from the current list position, and returns its value via the buffer located at
.I data_buff.
.\"
.SS config_search_br()
This function is the same as
.BR config_search()
but returns the value of key
.I name
by-reference via
.I data.
.\"
.SH RETURN VALUE
.SS config_search()
Upon successful completion,
.BR config_search()
returns 1 and 
.I data_buff
is set to the value of key
.I name,
or, if the length of the value of key
.I name
is greater than
.I buff_size
the data written to
.I data_buff
is truncated to the length of
.I buff_size,
and the function returns the length of the uncoppied data + 1.
.PP
If the value of key
.I name
is empty, 
.I data_buff
will be set to an empty string. If 
.I name 
exists, but is not a key,
.I data_buff 
will contain a newline.
.PP
If key
.I name
does not exist,
.BR config_search()
returns 0, and 
.I data_buff
is set to an empty string.
.PP
On error,
.BR config_search()
returns -1, and (hopefully) sets
.I errno
to a value indicating the error.
.\"
.SS config_search_br()
On sucsessful completion,
.I data
is set to point to the value of key
.I name.
.PP
If 
.I name
exists but is not a valid key,
.I data
will contain a newline.
.PP
If key
.I name
does not exist,
.I data
will be NULL.
.PP
On error,
.I data
will be set to NULL and
.I errno
will (hopefully) be set to a value indicating the error.
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Both 
.BR config_search(), 
and
.BR config_search_br()
functions may fail and set 
.I errno 
for any of the errors specified for the routine 
.BR pthread_sigmask(3).
.PP
In the event that
.I cfg,
or any of its data are not valid, both
.BR config_search(),
and
.BR config_search_br()
may also set
.I errno
to
.I EINVAL.
.SH NOTES
.SS config_search() notes.
The
.BR config_search()
functions are affected by, and affect, the current keylist position of
.I cfg.
.\"
.SS libreadconf notes.
See 
.BR libreadconf(3)
for more information. 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR config_open(3),
.BR config_read(3),
.BR config_close(3),
.BR config_rewind(3),
.BR config_index(3),
.BR config_next(3),
.BR config_index_br(3),
.BR config_next_br(3),
.BR libreadconf(3).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2020 Ian "Luna" Ericson and the Finity Software Group.
