.TH CONFIG_OPEN 3  "28 August 2020" "" "libreadconf Manual"
.SH NAME
config_open, config_fdopen, config_reopen \- configuration open functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libreadconf.h>
.PP
.BI "CONFIG *config_open(const char *" path ");
.PP
.BI "CONFIG *config_fdopen(int " fd ");
.PP
.BI "CONFIG *config_reopen(const char *" path ", CONFIG *" cfg ");
.ll -8
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS config_open()
This function opens the file whose name is the string pointed to by
.I path 
as a configuration file.
.\"
.SS config_fdopen()
This function opens an existing file descriptor as a configuration file.
.\"
.SS freopen()
This function opens the file whose name is the string pointed to by 
.I path 
and assosiates is with the configuration pointed to by
.I cfg
, freeing any exising configuration, if needed.
If 
.I cfg 
is NULL,
.BR config_reopen() 
functions the sames as 
.BR config_open()
\.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion
.BR config_open(),
.BR config_fdopen(),
and
.BR config_reopen()
return a
.I CONFIG
pointer.
Otherwise, NULL is returned and
.I errno
is (hopefully) set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The 
.BR config_open(), 
.BR config_fdopen(), 
and 
.BR config_reopen() 
functions may fail and set 
.I errno 
for any of the errors specified for the routines 
.BR malloc(3)
or
.BR pthread_sigmask(3).
.PP
The
.BR config_open()
and
.BR config_reopen()
functions may also fail and set
.I errno
for any of the errors specified for the routine
.BR open(2).
.PP
The
.BR config_reopen()
function may also fail and set
.I errno
for any of the errors specified for the routine
.BR fclose (3).
.SH NOTES
.SS libreadconf notes.
See 
.BR libreadconf(3)
for more information. 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR config_close(3),
.BR config_read(3),
.BR config_rewind(3),
.BR config_index(3),
.BR config_search(3),
.BR config_next(3),
.BR config_index_br(3),
.BR config_search_br(3),
.BR config_next_br(3),
.BR libreadconf(3).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2020 Ian "Luna" Ericson and the Finity Software Group.
